[Music]
what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose if you need
to the channel hi my name is Nasir and
I'm now a third year medical student
studying at King's College London and in
this video I want to tell you guys how
to stop procrastinating in college now
as a medical student I spend a pretty
decent amount of my time studying and so
it's crucial for me to know how to stop
procrastinating get started with work
and finish what I need to get done let
me tell you guys the five best tips I
can think of how to stop procrastinating
now the first thing that I do is I give
myself rewards this is actually my
favorite tip of all-time and is probably
the reason why I can work so hard and
get so much done I always give myself
rewards when studying personally I study
in four-hour blocks and I always start
with something to drink
it's usually coffee but it could also be
tea or a juice or even just water so I
tell myself okay now sir enjoy this
beverage while you're studying and at
the one hour mark you can go to the
kitchen and get yourself a snack and
I'll usually get myself some apples a
bowl of grapes candy whatever it is and
you best believe that during that first
hour of studying if I'm ever feeling a
little bit demotivated or I need a
little bit of a push I'm thinking about
the snack that I'm gonna get as my one
hour reward I probably sound crazy right
now but trust me you have to try this
after two hours of studying I usually
make myself some more coffee and after
three hours of studying I take a 5 to
10-minute phone break this way I'm
continuously giving myself something
that I can look forward to something
that has an end goal where I'm going to
do something that isn't directly looking
at this page I'm trying to study giving
yourself these little rewards no matter
how small they are really helps push you
and keep you going until the next one
and then eventually you're done with
your long session of studying the second
thing that I do is I break down big
tasks into smaller chunks sometimes when
you've got a lot of studying to do ahead
of you for example you have to write
really big paper or you have a big exam
that you're studying for it can be
really intimidating to think that you
have to do all of that in one go if you
break down the tasks into smaller pieces
for example today I'm gonna write 500
words of my essay or I'm gonna go
through lectures 1 to 5 for my upcoming
exam if it comes so much more money
it gives you a realistic goal that you
can work towards and that you can
actually complete in the foreseeable
future that way when you complete it you
feel good about yourself you cross it
off your list and you move on to the
next chunk of the bigger task not
feeling of completing a goal that you've
set for yourself even if it's a small
one is really motivating and it'll help
you keep on studying I'd love to hear
from you guys in a comment down below
about the tips and tricks that you use
to stop procrastinating the third thing
that I do and this one is really
important it's that I set timers for all
of my breaks if you're working on
something for hours on end it's only
natural that you're gonna feel like you
need a five or ten minute break every
now and again five minutes and that's
the difficult part it's actually
sticking to a five minute or ten minute
break on your phone and not just
endlessly scrolling through Instagram
for half an hour if you want to take a
break to make some tea watch a youtube
video or just browse through your social
media that's totally fine but just don't
forget to set a timer and then as soon
as that timer rings close your video
lock your phone and just hide it I don't
care where you hide it you can put it
behind your laptop you can put it in
another room you can give it to your
friend and tell them not to give it back
to you until you're done with your
session just put your phone out of your
sight if you can't see your phone it
won't be on your mind as much and it's
as simple as that the fourth tip is
about time management and making plans
the very first thing I do when I wake up
in the morning is I plan and usually
even before I go to sleep I'll have a
pretty good idea of what it is that I'm
gonna do the next day I sit down and
think about exactly how many hours in my
day I need to sit down and study how
many hours I can dedicate to chillin
doing chores administrative tasks
whatever it is and this way I have a
good idea of all the different tasks
that I need to do and how they're gonna
come together a very important part of
this is to be realistic with yourself
and not underestimate how long a task is
going to take you any task that I need
to do in my life I always overestimate
the amount of time that I think it's
going to take and the reason that I do
that is because if I finish early well
then great I've just earned some extra
time in my day and if I finish on time
then I finished on time and I haven't
pushed back the rest of my schedule
because I underestimated how long it
would take me to begin with and now
everything else is gonna fall behind
there's no point telling yourself that
the essay you need to do is only gonna
take you two hours when it's probably
gonna take you around for just over
estimate the time that you think you'll
need and you'll be fine my fifth and
final tip for this video is to make sure
that you actually do things you enjoy in
your evenings and your nights off
there's no point pushing yourself to
study for twelve hours a day for five
days and doing
nothing that's fun at all because then
you're gonna burn out and you're not
gonna be able to study for the weeks to
come up until your exam or your big
paper you have to actually chill
de-stress and let your mind and body
relax before you wake up in the morning
and start studying all over again play
some video games watch your favorite TV
show go out with your friends do
whatever it is that makes you happy
because trust me keeping a balance
between your chilling and your studies
is how you're gonna be able to study for
long periods of time so yeah balancing
your life is key and all right guys I
think that's where I'm gonna end this
video don't forget to leave a like on it
and if you're new subscribe to the
channel to see more content from me in
the future